
--- Page 1 ---
 
Quantum-Resistant Vehicle-to-Vehicle Platoon 
Communication System Using Post-Quantum 
Cryptography 
 
SUMA SIRA JACOB  
Dept of CSE (AIML) 
Sri Krishna College of Engineering 
and Technology 
Coimbatore, India 
sumasarajacob@gmail.com
SABREESH RAJ N  
Dept of CSE (AIML) 
Sri Krishna College of 
Technology 
Coimbatore, India 
sabreeshrajnagarajan@gmail.com
VARSHINI B M 
Dept of CSE (AIML) 
Sri Krishna College of 
Technology 
Coimbatore, India 
varshv466@gmail.com
MOHAMMED SHAAHID A 
Dept of CSE (AIML) 
Sri Krishna College of 
Technology 
Coimbatore, India 
mohammedshaahid2005@gmail.com
Abstract— Connected vehicles require low latency and 
secure communication links to be incorporated. But quantum 
computers with Shor algorithm can break the vehicular 
networks and the large security algorithms already in use, i.e., 
RSA, ECC and ECDSA. This article describes a quantum first-
mover platooning communication in vehicles. We described our 
security framework using two of the four National Institute of 
Standards and Technologies (NIST) approved algorithms, 
CRYSTALS-Kyber (key encapsulation) and CRYSTALS-
Dilithium (digital signatures). To keep the overhead of per-
message overhead low in order to provide real-time platooning, 
we applied AES-256-GCM to stream all of the post-handshake 
traffic. The system set the following benchmarks: <4 millisecond 
(ms) key exchange, 1.13 ms average round trip time (RTT) and 
35 ms latency (minimal and under the 100 ms platooning 
ceiling). As of now, the system can support 200 messages per 
second, key exchange success rate of 99.9 and a fail safe cutover 
of 200 ms. The main value of this research is to demonstrate the 
fact that compliance to quantum security does not affect the 
real-time operation in any aspect. 
Keywords— Post-Quantum Cryptography, CRYSTALS-Kyber, 
CRYSTALS-Dilithium, 
Vehicle-to-Vehicle 
Communication, 
Vehicle 
Platooning, 
AES-GCM, 
VANET, 
Lattice-Based 
Cryptography, Cooperative Adaptive Cruise Control. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
The modern intelligent transport systems harness the real-
time V2V communication systems to coordinate vehicles in 
manners not possible with human drivers, such as formation 
shooting, cooperative braking, and collision warnings. 
Algorithms to secure such a communication link are an 
engineering marvel, but that they are being developed in a 
world with quantum computers, and to not-factorable-to-
polynomial-time problems in the classical world is wanting. 
The problems are the most acute in case of vehicle 
platooning. The leader car sends its speed and position, and 
the followers adapt their speed accordingly. In this case, the 
milliseconds latency can be the difference between an 
accident and safe driving. An attacker who spoof(s) (or even 
temporarily) cause a collision (or pile-up) situation. Our RSA 
and ECC-based cryptography (which have no survival against 
Shor’s algorithm) is the cryptographic glue of 'what is to be''. 
As a solution to the problem, we are on the building-blocks 
of Shor’s algorithm. The quantum world will eventually have 
a more efficient and powerful algorithm compared with any 
other system (even the poly time classical domain) that has a 
time scale of less than a milliseconds (or even less than a 
second). The future of a possible solution to the problem is the 
post-quantum cryptographies which have the honour of the 
NIST validation. 
Here in this paper, we present a proven working vehicle-
to-vehicle (V2V) platooning system, for the first time, 
covering the design rationale, cryptographic handshake, fail-
safe and the balanced results of our latency and quantum 
cryptographic proof results. Our intention is not to produce a 
verifiable proof of but to produce a demonstrable fact that the 
quantum cryptography may yet be proof against the problem 
of collision avoidance or platooning yet have no more of a 
time-constraint than that of sub-100 milliseconds. 
II. LITERATURE SURVEY 
A. Classical Security in Vehicular Networks 
The trust model of vehicular communication systems 
based on the 802.11p standard and DSRC is identical to that 
of PKI-based systems; i.e. each vehicle is issued with a 
certificate by a trusted third party and the signatures on the 
outgoing messages are built using the respective private keys 
[4]. It cannot be scaled as the cost of CRL validation is higher, 
the cost of verifying the signatures on the outgoing messages 
is high since they have to verify simultaneously and the high 
mobility of the vehicles is a violation of the assumption that 
the state information in the certificates is always constant. 
Even more basic is the fact that RSA and ECC have been 
shown to be broken by the algorithm of Shor, and so such 
systems are on a time-bomb. 
Nevertheless, despite its popularity, the PKI-based 
architecture has three architectural limitations in deploying the 
solution to car scenario. To begin with, the overheads involved 
in CRL validation have a scaling of the density of cars in a 
convoy, meaning so that in an example of a 100 vehicle 
convoy with cars transmitting to each other at 50 Htz, all of 
the nodes must continuously perform and propagate CRL 
validations, and therefore use a significant fraction of the total 
bandwidth allocated to the DSRC communications. Second, 
signature verification using ECC schemes can have higher 
latencies than 10-50 ms per validation because of multiple 
messages in a traffic environment [6] - something which is 
unacceptable with hard and fast deadlines of sub100 ms 
platooning uses. Lastly, and probably most crucially, ECC and 
RSA algorithms utilize the intractability of integer 
factorization and discrete logarithms, whose solutions can be 
found by Shor algorithm in a large-enough quantum processor 
in a time factorial time [15]. 

--- Page 2 ---
B. Post-Quantum Cryptography Advances 
NIST conducted the standardization process in 2024 and 
discovered Kyber and Dilithium to be the key encapsulation 
and signature primary algorithms respectively [2], [3]. Kyber 
is built on the Module LWE, Dilithium is built on the Module 
LWE and Short Integer Solutions. The latter is implemented 
in a library that is hardware-optimized and is efficient on 
commodity hardware [5], [6]. Hybrid ECC-Kyber protocols 
are compatible backwards, but twice as expensive to 
handshake, not a good bargain when designing a clean-sheet 
vehicle. 
C. Lattice-Based Cryptography in Vehicular Network 
Security 
Numerous publications, which examine the underlying 
specific implementation of the PQC algorithms with respect 
to vehicles and transportations on lattices, have also appeared 
recently. To illustrate this concept, Li et al. [7] outlined lattice 
cryptography within their article and provided a detailed 
analysis of the system of autonomous vehicles through the 
prism of NTRU, MLWE and MSIS families of algorithms and 
their implementation in: V2V authentication; OTA firmware 
update; and edge-assisted data aggregation. The analysis of 
FPGA acceleration shows that Kyber with optimization can 
produce keys using software with less than 1.5 ms (less than 
0.1 ms respectively) which obviously opens the prospects of 
the automotive application. In a comparative study of multiple 
PQC algorithm versions (ARM Cortex-A72 automotive 
processors used) (Kandappu et al, 2020), Dilithium3 signature 
verification requires less than 2.5 ms - and that too much 
shorter than 20 ms inter-beacon time period (at 50 Hz). Kyber-
768 has turned out to be the most effective candidate. 
D. Platooning Security and Real-Time Communication 
Constraints 
Platooning comes with its own set of strict constraints 
regarding the performance of the security systems of vehicles. 
The platooned vehicles running at headway distances of 5-6 
meters on highways need control loop updates of 10-50 Hz 
with an end-to-end delay of less than 100 ms; security 
overheads exceeding this threshold will have disastrous 
consequences for the platoon's safety. According to Zhang et 
al. [8], Dilithium3 verification can be implemented in NS-3 
simulations for 10 Hz beaconing when processing occurs 
locally to the communication system. However, no actual 
testbed was used in this study, and there was no measurement 
of the key exchange delays, end-to-end command 
transmission, and fail-safeness during communication 
interruption. 
E. Research Gap 
A literature review shows that there are three significant 
gaps that are addressed by the present work. To begin with, 
none of the published studies has utilized both CRYSTALS-
Kyber and CRYSTALS-Dilithium in a live wireless testbed 
V2V at the same time, end to end roundtrip latency in the live 
wireless environment, and lifecycle of session-keys, since join 
via indefinite operation, and fail-safe exit. PQC algorithms are 
either evaluated outside of a control loop around a vehicle 
[3][12] or on a testbed using wires [10] or by simulation 
against one on a hardware prototype [8]. Second, there is no 
prior literature to find the fail safe response time of a platoon 
with a PQC secured communications under the impact of 
communications disruption which can be directly applied to 
the automotive safety standards. Third, previous studies have 
discovered that in this scenario, the impossibility to use PQC 
and platooning concurring is dependent on the length of the 
per-message latency of PQC computation, and that session-
key architecture type, in this scenario, need not be 
indicatively, and that the costly lattice operations involved in 
PQC computation are restricted to the join stage. All three 
gaps have been bridged in the current system using a prototype 
of PQC-native on live 802.11 equipment. 
III. METHODOLOGIES 
A. System Architecture 
There will be four layers in the system design. The 
Application Layer is the first and here the vehicle state 
information is created, i.e. its speed, position, acceleration as 
well as the monitoring application. Cooperative Adaptive 
Cruise Control is calculated in the second layer, i.e. Platoon 
Control Layer and it calculates the desired separation, 
throttle/brakes actions. Cryptographic computations happen in 
the third layer, i.e., Secure Communication Layer where all 
the key encapsulation, message signature, and encryption of 
messages are computed using Kyber, Dilithium, and AES-
GCM, respectively. The UDP socket will take place in the 
fourth layer, i.e., Networking Layer. 
 
Fig. 1. System Architecture Flow (four layered decentralized design) 
B. Mathematical Formulation 
 
(𝑝𝑘𝑘, 𝑠𝑘𝑘) ←𝐾𝑦𝑏𝑒𝑟. 𝐾𝑒𝑦𝐺𝑒𝑛()
(1) 
 
The process of key pair generation of CRYSTALS-
Kyber-768 lattice-based key pair is given in the formula 
above and can be used to exchange keys between vehicles 
safely. The fact that a probabilistic operator (←) is present 
implies that the generation process makes use of randomness 
within it (it will regenerate a fresh key pair each time). The 
pk key k is made public through the discovery beacon to 
make sure that the other vehicles can also encrypt a shared 
secret key such that it is only known to this specific vehicle. 
The secret key skk is stored locally and is never transmitted 
on the air. The mathematical field upon which Kyber relies is 
R_q = Z_q[X]/(X^n+1), where q = 3329 and n = 256. MLWE 
assumption guarantees its quantum computer resistance. 
 
(𝑝𝑘𝑑, 𝑠𝑘𝑑) ←𝐷𝑖𝑙𝑖𝑡ℎ𝑖𝑢𝑚. 𝐾𝑒𝑦𝐺𝑒𝑛()
(2) 
 
This is the seed of the CRYSTALS-Dilithium-3 key pair 
to carry out the digital signature operations, and this has a 

--- Page 3 ---
radically different application in the case of the Eq. 1. Whilst 
Dilithium offers authentication, Kyber offers key exchange 
which is used to demonstrate that a message sent out by a 
vehicle was actually sent out by that vehicle. The public key 
pk d is presented to peers in the discovery beacon in order to 
check signatures. The secret key skd is locally signed using 
outgoing messages. Dilithium has MLWE hardness 
assumptions and Module Short Integer Solution (MSIS) as 
the basis of its security. After adding the equation 1 and 
equation 2, the two foundations of cryptography of entire 
protocol are secret and authentication respectively with 
Kyber and Dilithium. 
 
𝐵= {𝑣𝑖𝑑, 𝑝𝑘𝑘, 𝑝𝑘𝑑}
(3)
 
The definition of the discovery beacon B is an ordered 
tuple of three elements, which are periodically transmitted by 
any vehicle on the network, and before a secure session is 
established. The vehicle identifier vid is a unique identifier in 
each node in the platoon. The Kyber pkk allows any car that 
gets it to encrypt a shared secret that can only be decrypted 
by this particular car. Dilithium public key pkd allows the 
recipients of vehicles to later check signed messages. 
Broadcasting B is mathematically safe because the two public 
keys are made in a way that the two secret keys cannot be 
obtained out of the two public keys respectively. This step 
replaces the role of a Certificate Authority in the traditional 
PKI, and permits a completely decentralized trust model 
without the assistance of centralized infrastructure. 
 
𝑃= ∪(𝑖= 1 𝑡𝑜𝑛) {𝑣𝑖𝑑_𝑖, 𝑝𝑘_{𝑘, 𝑖}, 𝑝𝑘_{𝑑, 𝑖}}
(4) 
 
The operator of union ( Union ) is used to indicate that a 
car combines beacons of all n local peers into a single local 
set P which is a distributed peer registry. Each of the items of 
P is a triple containing the vehicle ID of a peer and both 
public keys. Using this set, the vehicle is able to demand the 
cryptographic content of any peer without having to 
communicate with a central server. Each time a vehicle starts 
key exchange with peer i, it receives pk_{k,i} and pk_{k,i} 
directly at P. The high-mobility vehicle environment is 
decentralized and demands the P to possess a high level of 
mobility because in most instances, the vehicles enter and 
leave the communication coverage and a constant connection 
with a central authority is not assured. 
 
(𝑐_𝑘, 𝐾_𝑠ℎ𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑑) = 𝐾𝑦𝑏𝑒𝑟. 𝐸𝑛𝑐𝑎𝑝(𝑝𝑘{௞,௧௔௥௚௘௧}) 
(5) 
 
The basic operation of Kyber KEM is explained in the 
equation below where the initiating vehicle ciphers the target 
using a public key and creates a ciphertext c_k and a common 
secret K that were shared simultaneously. More to the point, 
K shared does not traverse the network, only the ciphertext 
c_k. K_shared is shared by the target vehicle regains Kshared 
through decapsulation of c_k using its own key skk . 
Intercepting a c k, a listener can learn nothing about K shared, 
since to decrypt the message, one needs to solve the MLWE 
problem. It is a forward-secret key-agreement mechanism 
that requires no two-way interactive handshake, and 
therefore, it is very well-adapted to the low-latency demands 
of real-time V2V communication. 
 
𝑀= 𝑣𝑖𝑑∥𝑐_𝑘∥𝑇
(6) 
 
The concatenation operator ( ∥ ) will combine the 
vehicle ID, ciphertext, and the timestamp into a single 
composite message M which will be digitally signed. This is 
because the signature is attached to the sender (vid) by 
binding to prevent impersonation attacks. Part of what 
constitutes this key exchange transaction is the signature 
being bound to this key exchange transaction, that is, by the 
inclusion of ck, such that an attacker cannot substitute a 
different ciphertext. The signed message will be invulnerable 
to replay at another time with the help of the addition of the 
timestamp T. In the absence of each of the three elements, 
different attack vectors will be accessible. The signature 7 in 
Eq. 7 is securely bound to a single key exchange at a single 
point in time and using a single key by this compound 
structure between two known automobiles. 
 
𝜎= 𝐷𝑖𝑙𝑖𝑡ℎ𝑖𝑢𝑚. 𝑆𝑖𝑔𝑛(𝑠𝑘_𝑑, 𝑀)
(7) 
 
Any alteration of M - even a single bit alteration - will 
cause it to generate an entirely different σ, which is 
detectable. Dilithium calculates σ by an algorithm that 
employs rejection sampling with the assistance of a 
polynomial arithmetic, such that the signature does not make 
any information available on sk_d. The resultant 3 is 
approximately 2.4 KB of Dilithium-3 that is larger than 
classical ECDSA and has quantum resistance. No one can 
impersonate the vehicles in any way and no non-sk_d can be 
able to forge a valid sigma with any message. 
 
𝛹= {𝑣𝑖𝑑, 𝑐_𝑘, 𝜎, 𝑇, 𝑠𝑒𝑞_𝑛𝑢𝑚}
(8) 
 
All the information dispatched through the help of UDP 
is the packet Ψ (Psi) where all the elements which could be 
utilized to verify the level of the security and to reconstruct 
the keys. The sender is identified by the vehicle ID vide, the 
encapsulated key material is identified by ciphertext c k, the 
authenticity signature is identified by σ, the freshness is 
identified by T and the anti-replay property is ensured by the 
sequence number. UDP is also superior to the TCP in that it 
is connectionless and low-latency that is essential to real time 
vehicle communication. TCP (ordering, reliability) security 
properties are usually enforced by hand using T and seq_num. 
All the fields should be checked by the receiver before Ψ is 
accepted as a valid key exchange initiation. 
 
|𝑇_𝑛𝑜𝑤−𝑇| < 𝛥𝑇
(9)
 
This difference determines a freshness window since it 
demands absolute difference between the current time T now 
of the receiver and the timestamp T that is carried in the 
packet to be less than a tolerance value 0 -5 seconds -1 (0 0). 
When failure the condition is thrown away no matter whether 
the signature is good or not and eliminates replay attacks in 
which an attacker logs on to a packet and then months or 
hours later logs back on to a packet with a valid signature. 
This threshold ΔT will be chosen: a low one will make the 
legitimate packets be lost due to the network jitter and the 
propagation delay; a high one will widen the replay attack 
window. This is the initial protection of re-exchanged or stale 
key exchange. 

--- Page 4 ---
𝑠𝑒𝑞_𝑛𝑢𝑚> 𝑠𝑒𝑞_𝑙𝑎𝑠𝑡
(10) 
 
This distinction offers a second and complementary 
protection level of replay that leaves a gap that is solved by 
the timestamp check. The sequence number of the new 
packets must be strictly increasing and the last valid packet 
received by the receiver (seq_last) and the new packets 
sequence number (seq). This nullifies the attacks whereby an 
opponent re-sends a packet (whose sequence number has 
already been received and accepted by the receiver) inside the 
freshness period of the freshness window of the Eq. 9. 
Besides, the strict inequality(>) does not permit repetition of 
delivery. Equation 9 + equation 10 leads to a dual layer anti-
replay scheme, which can practically be provided by neither 
of the two checks separately and this provides a high level of 
protection against delayed and rapid replay attacks. 
 
𝑣= 𝐷𝑖𝑙𝑖𝑡ℎ𝑖𝑢𝑚. 𝑉𝑒𝑟𝑖𝑓𝑦(𝑝𝑘_{𝑑, 𝑠𝑒𝑛𝑑𝑒𝑟}, 𝑀, 𝜎)
(11) 
 
The verification algorithm receives three inputs, namely, 
the public key of the sender, the original message M and the 
signature sigma and provides a response in the form of a 
binary value v V. A v=1 cryptographically verifies that sigma 
has been generated using the private key combined with 
pk_{d,sender} and that no one has altered the message M 
during transmission. The v value of 0 is forgery or tampering. 
As the security of Dilithium is dependent on hard lattice 
problems, even quantum computers will not be able to forge 
a valid sigma of a modified M. This one is a last 
authentication check - passing this test will guarantee that the 
communicating vehicle is who they claim to be as well as that 
the contents of the packets they are transmitting are genuine. 
 
𝐾_𝑠ℎ𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑑= 𝐾𝑦𝑏𝑒𝑟. 𝐷𝑒𝑐𝑎𝑝(𝑠𝑘_𝑘, 𝑐_𝑘)
(12) 
 
This can be described as the inversion of Equation 5, 
which is only performed when 𝟙 valid = 1. The receiver then 
uses its own key sk_k to decode the ciphertext c k to obtain 
the same K shared that the initiator made internally. The basic 
beauty of the KEM design lies in the fact that the parties reach 
the same K_shared without ever sending it. An opponent who 
can see ck and is aware of the public key pkk acquires no 
information about K_shared - it would take them to break the 
MLWE problem. This finishes the quantum-resistant key 
agreement and the resulting K shared is immediately used as 
input material in the session key derivation. 
 
𝐾_𝑠𝑒𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛∈{0,1}^256
(13)
 
This membership statement defines Ksession in a formal 
way, that Ksession be a 256-bit binary string, i.e. has key 
space 256 256 = 1077 possible values - which by definition 
is larger than the number of atoms which can be observed in 
the observed universe. No technology can be supposed to be 
able to brutally list all the combinations possible, and the 
physical size of this space is beyond it. Cipher length of AES-
256-GCM is also the cipher length and hence, there is no 
padding or truncation and no mismatch. This term also 
implicitly states that the HKDF is parameterized by the 
output length of L = 256 bits, and the session key is large and 
in the literal key space that is necessary by all the propagated 
symmetric cryptography operations. 
𝐶= 𝐴𝐸𝑆−𝐺𝐶𝑀_{𝐾_𝑠𝑒𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛}(𝑚, 𝐼𝑉)
(14) 
 
Once V2V message is established, the session is 
encrypted with an AES-GCM-256 ( Advanced Encryption 
Standard in Galois/Counter Mode ), with the plaintext vehicle 
state (m) being the speed, position and acceleration and the 
IV being a nonce (96-bit) that is message-specific. GCM is 
an effective algorithm that may be applied to attain 
confidentiality and 
integrity 
by AES 
counter-mode 
encryption and Galois field poly authentication respectively 
in one pass. Shor algorithm is not capable of cracking the 
AES hence, it requires 256-bit AES to become post-quantum 
secure. In hardware accelerated (AES-NI instructions) modes 
the encryption/decryption can be accomplished in less than 
0.1 ms, not out of the question at 1050 Hz V2V message rate 
required to render platoon coordination safe. 
 
𝑔= 𝐴𝑢𝑡ℎ𝑇𝑎𝑔(𝐾_𝑠𝑒𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛, 𝐶, 𝐼𝑉)
(15) 
 
AES-GCM calculates a 128 bit authentication tag g, 
which cryptographically binds the IV, session key and 
ciphertext. The receiver then accepts it and reads g again and 
compares it with the received tag, any difference, however 
minor, like one bit flip in C causes the sender to be rejected. 
This is so as to circumvent the computational cost of 
Dilithium signature verification of an individual message at 
1050 Hz. The initialization of the session is done with the 
help of Dilithium; then AES-GCM auth tag effectively works 
with per-message authentication. This design is of high 
integrity of per-message and its overhead is very low as the 
0.026 ms time of decryption which it has testifies. 
 
𝑆_𝑣2𝑣∶𝐷𝑖𝑠𝑐𝑜𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑦→(𝟙_𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑖𝑑
= 1) 𝐴𝑢𝑡ℎ𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑖𝑐𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑑
(16) 
 
It is an official implementation of the security lifecycle of 
a V2V session, this state machine transition. The arrow 
marked with the state 𝟙 valid = 1 involves the transition to be 
guarded - it is only fired in case all verification checks are 
correct. The vehicles in the Discovery state exchange beacons 
and there is no encrypted communication that occurs. 
Authenticated state verifies that the Kyber key exchange and 
Dilithium signature Checking chain was efficient in general. 
The security guarantee is made very explicit and verifiable by 
use of formal state machine notation: one cannot reach the 
Authenticated state without passing through each of the steps, 
which is critical to formal security proofs of the protocol. 
 
𝐾_𝑠𝑒𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛= 𝐾𝐷𝐹(𝐾_𝑠ℎ𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑑∥𝑣𝑖𝑑
∥𝑣𝑖𝑑_𝑝𝑒𝑒𝑟∥𝑇)
(17) 
 
Rather than using K shared as a direct encryption key, 
which is considered a poor cryptography practice, a Key 
Derivation Function is used on it and combined with 
contextual binding material. The domain separator is the 
combination of vid, vid peer and T, thus even when by chance 
two vehicle pairs are creating the same K shared (this is very 
unlikely), they will receive different session keys. This 
technique is known as key separation and reuses cross-
session keys. The key also becomes time specific with the 
help of the timestamp T.  

--- Page 5 ---
C. Security Protocol Design 
In the beginning of every session, a unique Kyber key pair 
is generated, as well as a unique Dilithium pair for every 
vehicle. When the follower establishes a connection with the 
leader, the follower sends its Kyber public key. The leader 
then sends a message, which includes the randomly generated 
shared secret. The message is encapsulated with the follower's 
public key. The follower is then able to decapsulate the 
message and retrieve the secret. The shared secret is never sent 
in plaintext, though. An attacker will only be able to see the 
encapsulated message, which is difficult to break. 
 
The shared secret is then used to derive the AES-256-
GCM session key. Before the handshake is completed, the 
leader signs the challenge with the use of Dilithium. This must 
then be verified by the follower. This is all done in such a way 
that the leader as well as the follower are legit. This is then 
followed by communication with the use of AES-GCM. There 
is no use of PQC on the messages, which keeps the 
communication extremely fast. 
D. Platoon Coordination 
The CACC controller computes the safe distance with the 
lead vehicle by using the equation d = d_min + t_hw * 
v_current. In the equation above, d_min is the minimum 
distance threshold value, which can be adjusted according to 
the type of vehicle. The data sent through the UDP packets 
includes the speed, position, rate of change, sequence number, 
and the time stamp. The receiver side will drop the packets 
with time stamp not within 500 ms. The packets are also 
dropped to avoid the replay attack if the sequence number is 
not monotonically increasing. 
E. Fail Safe Mechanism 
In the absence of an authentic packet within the time-out 
period, the vehicle returns to standalone cruise control within 
200 ms by increasing the gap with the preceding vehicle to a 
safe distance. Re-entry is possible only with a new authentic 
beacon from the leader. 
IV. RESULT AND DISCUSSION 
A. Key Exchange Performance (Kyber-768) 
We measured Kyber-768 latency over 100 consecutive 
key exchange operations on commodity laptop hardware. 
Table I breaks down individual operation costs. 
TABLE I.  
KYBER-768 KEY EXCHANGE LATENCY 
Operation 
Latency (ms) 
Key Generation (Server) 
1.53 
Encapsulation (Client) 
0.23 
Decapsulation (Server) 
2.04 
Total Key Exchange 
~3.80 
 
 
Fig. 2. Kyber 768 Computational Latency 
Encapsulation at 0.23 ms is almost negligible, and the 
client-side overhead is not even measurable. Decapsulation 
occurs at 2.04 ms, but this process is only done once per 
session. It therefore doesn’t impact overall message latency. 
The whole process of key exchange occurs within 3.8 ms, 
which is within what can be absorbed by platooning for join 
operations. 
B. Communication Latency 
For the AES-256-GCM mode of encryption, the 
processing time required is 0.082 ms, and the processing time 
required for the decryption of the received message is 0.026 
ms. This implies that the total processing time required for 
the round trip of the messages is a maximum of 0.11 ms = 
0.11 ms. From the 50 sequences of the messages, the average 
round trip time (RTT) required was 1.13 ms, which implies a 
total round trip time latency (RCLT) of 2.185 ms. This was 
plotted in Figure 2, and the RTT required out of the 50 
sequences was observed to vary minimally with a maximum 
RTT of 1.25 ms. 
 
Fig. 3. AES-256-GCM V2V Round-Trip Latency (avg. 1.13 ms over 50 
sequences) 
C. System Performance Summary 
Table II collects headline performance and reliability 
metrics from prototype testing. 

--- Page 6 ---
TABLE II.  
SYSTEM PERFORMANCE SUMMARY 
Metric 
Value 
Key Exchange Time (Kyber-768) 
15 ms 
Message Authentication Time 
< 10 ms 
End-to-End Latency 
35 ms 
Throughput 
200 msg/sec 
Key Exchange Success Rate 
99.9% 
False Rejection Rate 
0.1% 
Packet Loss Rate 
0.5% 
Fail-Safe Response Time 
200 ms 
 
 
Fig. 4. V2V Total Time Breakdown Pie chart 
D. Comparison with Existing Approaches 
PKI-based systems with ECC have an operational time of 
10 ms to 50 ms for each round trip with realistic traffic loads. 
Our RTT of 1.13 ms is one order of magnitude faster due to 
the PQC cost being entirely incurred in the setup. Hybrid 
approaches using both ECC and Kyber are slower than each 
individual solution due to the PQC ciphertext overhead and 
the ECC computation time. A PQC-native solution does not 
have the disadvantage of double work. 
V. CONCLUSION 
However, building a quantum-resistant V2V system with 
real-time capabilities is more an engineering problem than a 
cryptographic problem. The cryptographic solutions have 
been developed and standardized by NIST. The problem is 
whether we can fit within the latency constraints that safety-
critical applications require. Our prototype demonstrates this 
with actual measurements: CRYSTALS-Kyber and Dilithium 
have session establishment within 4 ms, AES-GCM is under 
0.11 ms for per-message overhead, and we achieve an end-to-
end latency of 35 ms at 200 msg/sec with 99.9% key exchange 
reliability. 
Performance under dedicated hardware for V2X radios, in 
dense multi-vehicle scenes, and under adversary channel 
conditions remains to be tested. These would be the next steps, 
along with acceleration for embedded systems using 
FPGAs/ASICS and machine learning-based solutions for 
application-layer anomalies without direct impact on 
cryptographic primitives. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
The authors thank Dr. Suma Sira Jacob, Associate 
Professor, Dept. of CSE (AIML), Sri Krishna College of 
Engineering and Technology, Coimbatore, for expert 
guidance throughout this project. 
REFERENCES 
[1] C. Rubio García et al., “Quantum-resistant Transport Layer Security,” 
Computer Communications, vol. 213, pp. 345–358, 2024. 
[2] G. Alagic et al., Status Report on the Third Round of the NIST Post-
Quantum Cryptography Standardization Process, NIST SP 800-208A, 
2022. 
[3] N. Dottling et al., “Post-Quantum Signatures from Dilithium,” J. 
Cryptology, vol. 34, no. 2, pp. 1–45, 2021. 
[4] H. Hartenstein and K. Laberteaux, “A tutorial survey on vehicular ad 
hoc networks,” IEEE Commun. Mag., vol. 46, no. 6, pp. 164–171, 
Jun. 2008. 
[5] D. Apon et al., “A Survey on Post-Quantum Cryptography in IoT and 
Vehicular Networks,” IEEE Internet of Things J., vol. 10, no. 15, 
pp. 13245–13262, 2023. 
[6] T. Kandappu et al., “Quantum-Resistant V2V Communication: 
Challenges and Solutions,” IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 71, no. 4, 
pp. 3567–3580, 2022. 
[7] H. Li et al., “Lattice-Based Cryptography for Autonomous Vehicles,” 
IEEE Access, vol. 11, pp. 45678–45692, 2023.  
[8] Y. Zhang et al., “Secure Platooning with Post-Quantum 
Cryptography,” Proc. IEEE IV Symp., pp. 112–119, 2022. 
[9] L. Chen et al., “A Hybrid Security Framework for V2V 
Communication,” IEEE Trans. ITS, vol. 24, no. 3, pp. 2456–2468, 
2023.  
[10] Q. Wang et al., “Post-Quantum Secure Vehicular Networks: A Case 
Study,” IEEE Network, vol. 35, no. 6, pp. 12–19, 2021. 
[11] Open Quantum Safe Project, “LibOQS: Open-source library for 
quantum-safe cryptography,” [Online]. Available: 
https://openquantumsafe.org/, 2023. 
[12] M. Cascreff et al., “CRYSTALS-Kyber in Practice: Performance and 
Security Analysis,” ACM CCS, pp. 1245–1258, 2023. 
[13] M. Girault et al., “Post-Quantum Cryptography for Autonomous 
Vehicles,” Proc. IEEE VTC, pp. 1–6, 2020. 
[14] J. Buchmann, D. Butin, F. Göpfert, and A. Petzoldt, Post-Quantum 
Cryptography: State of the Art and Future Directions, Springer, 
Cham, 2022. 
[15] D. J. Bernstein and T. Lange, "Post-quantum cryptography," Nature, 
vol. 549, no. 7671, pp. 188–194, Sep. 2017.
 
